<style type="text/css">.rendered-markdown{font-size:14px} .rendered-markdown>*:first-child{margin-top:0!important} .rendered-markdown>*:last-child{margin-bottom:0!important} .rendered-markdown a{text-decoration:underline;color:#b75246} .rendered-markdown a:hover{color:#f36050} .rendered-markdown h1, .rendered-markdown h2, .rendered-markdown h3, .rendered-markdown h4, .rendered-markdown h5, .rendered-markdown h6{margin:24px 0 10px;padding:0;font-weight:bold;-webkit-font-smoothing:antialiased;cursor:text;position:relative} .rendered-markdown h1 tt, .rendered-markdown h1 code, .rendered-markdown h2 tt, .rendered-markdown h2 code, .rendered-markdown h3 tt, .rendered-markdown h3 code, .rendered-markdown h4 tt, .rendered-markdown h4 code, .rendered-markdown h5 tt, .rendered-markdown h5 code, .rendered-markdown h6 tt, .rendered-markdown h6 code{font-size:inherit} .rendered-markdown h1{font-size:28px;color:#000} .rendered-markdown h2{font-size:22px;border-bottom:1px solid #ccc;color:#000} .rendered-markdown h3{font-size:18px} .rendered-markdown h4{font-size:16px} .rendered-markdown h5{font-size:14px} .rendered-markdown h6{color:#777;font-size:14px} .rendered-markdown p, .rendered-markdown blockquote, .rendered-markdown ul, .rendered-markdown ol, .rendered-markdown dl, .rendered-markdown table, .rendered-markdown pre{margin:15px 0} .rendered-markdown hr{border:0 none;color:#ccc;height:4px;padding:0} .rendered-markdown>h2:first-child, .rendered-markdown>h1:first-child, .rendered-markdown>h1:first-child+h2, .rendered-markdown>h3:first-child, .rendered-markdown>h4:first-child, .rendered-markdown>h5:first-child, .rendered-markdown>h6:first-child{margin-top:0;padding-top:0} .rendered-markdown a:first-child h1, .rendered-markdown a:first-child h2, .rendered-markdown a:first-child h3, .rendered-markdown a:first-child h4, .rendered-markdown a:first-child h5, .rendered-markdown a:first-child h6{margin-top:0;padding-top:0} .rendered-markdown h1+p, .rendered-markdown h2+p, .rendered-markdown h3+p, .rendered-markdown h4+p, .rendered-markdown h5+p, .rendered-markdown h6+p{margin-top:0} .rendered-markdown ul, .rendered-markdown ol{padding-left:30px} .rendered-markdown ul li>:first-child, .rendered-markdown ul li ul:first-of-type, .rendered-markdown ol li>:first-child, .rendered-markdown ol li ul:first-of-type{margin-top:0} .rendered-markdown ul ul, .rendered-markdown ul ol, .rendered-markdown ol ol, .rendered-markdown ol ul{margin-bottom:0} .rendered-markdown dl{padding:0} .rendered-markdown dl dt{font-size:14px;font-weight:bold;font-style:italic;padding:0;margin:15px 0 5px} .rendered-markdown dl dt:first-child{padding:0} .rendered-markdown dl dt>:first-child{margin-top:0} .rendered-markdown dl dt>:last-child{margin-bottom:0} .rendered-markdown dl dd{margin:0 0 15px;padding:0 15px} .rendered-markdown dl dd>:first-child{margin-top:0} .rendered-markdown dl dd>:last-child{margin-bottom:0} .rendered-markdown blockquote{border-left:4px solid #DDD;padding:0 15px;color:#777} .rendered-markdown blockquote>:first-child{margin-top:0} .rendered-markdown blockquote>:last-child{margin-bottom:0} .rendered-markdown table th{font-weight:bold} .rendered-markdown table th, .rendered-markdown table td{border:1px solid #ccc;padding:6px 13px} .rendered-markdown table tr{border-top:1px solid #ccc;background-color:#fff} .rendered-markdown table tr:nth-child(2n){background-color:#f8f8f8} .rendered-markdown img{max-width:100%;-moz-box-sizing:border-box;box-sizing:border-box} .rendered-markdown code, .rendered-markdown tt{margin:0 2px;padding:0 5px;border:1px solid #eaeaea;background-color:#f8f8f8;border-radius:3px} .rendered-markdown code{white-space:nowrap} .rendered-markdown pre>code{margin:0;padding:0;white-space:pre;border:0;background:transparent} .rendered-markdown .highlight pre, .rendered-markdown pre{background-color:#f8f8f8;border:1px solid #ccc;font-size:13px;line-height:19px;overflow:auto;padding:6px 10px;border-radius:3px} .rendered-markdown pre code, .rendered-markdown pre tt{margin:0;padding:0;background-color:transparent;border:0}</style>
<div class="rendered-markdown"><h1>Course Assignment Report</h1>
<h2>Introduction:</h2>
<p>This report includes my development process, overall design pattern and implementation details, and challenges encountered during developing. The web application has three pages: Introduction page (root page), which provides a brief preview of the whole website; About page, which includes some informations about me; Quiz page, which  a quiz application with dynamic back-end functionality.</p>
<p>For starting the application, you should use Terminal and enter these commands: &ldquo;cd server/&rdquo; and &ldquo;npm start&rdquo;. Then the server will run at the localhost of this Codio: &ldquo;https://delphimonster-salturgent-3000.codio-box.uk/&ldquo;.</p>
<p><strong>Note that:</strong> Due to the slow loading speed of the official Bootstrap CDN in my geographical location, I chose to use the domestic Bootstrap CDN service to accelerate resource loading.If you are considering replacing the CDN service, simply replace the following Bootstrap related link codes in the existing HTML file with new CDN addresses to seamlessly migrate without making significant changes to the project structure or code.</p>
<p>Codes to replace (in every html file):</p>
<pre><code>&lt;script src="https://cdn.staticfile.net/jquery/3.2.1/jquery.min.js"&gt;&lt;/script&gt;
&lt;script src="https://cdn.staticfile.net/popper.js/1.15.0/umd/popper.min.js"&gt;&lt;/script&gt;
&lt;script src="https://cdn.staticfile.net/twitter-bootstrap/4.3.1/js/bootstrap.min.js"&gt;&lt;/script&gt;
</code></pre>
<p>And when you first enter the page, it may need some time to load the static files, especially when you press the &ldquo;view leaderboard&rdquo; button in the quiz page. If you wait for a long time, just refresh the browsers.</p>
<h2>Project Overview</h2>
<h3>Front end</h3>
<p>All the pages use a template to make the appearance more user-friendly and simple, following responsive design principles. The template includes a navigation on the top, which is fixed on the top of the pages. There is also a footer at the bottom of the page, which includes some contact links of me. And for background, I use a picture to fill the background, making the website more beautiful.</p>
<p>In the navigation, users can navigate between different pages. On the right side of the navigation bar, there is a icon of &ldquo;play&rdquo; and a search bar. You can click the icon for listening the bgm, click again to pause or continue. The search bar doesn't make sense, but for future functionality, it can be utilized for searching content within the website or providing related search features.</p>
<h4>Introduction Page</h4>
<p>The Introduction page (root page) adopts a dual column layout, and I use some images to enrich the content. Some links are added to help users to redirect to other pages.</p>
<h4>About Page</h4>
<p>In the About page, there are some details for me, including my personal informations, my hobbies and exhibition of works. At the right side of the page, there is an automatically switch photo wall, which is completed by JavaScript written in &ldquo;/static/my.js&rdquo;. In the display section, there is an audio tag to play a music.</p>
<h4>Quiz Page</h4>
<p>The Quiz page is much more difficult than other pages. In this page, you can answer ten questions. When you are doing the quiz, there will be a timer to record the time. After you finish, you can see the result and, time you have used and a button to submit and see the leaderboard. The logic for answering questions and storing answers are implemented through JavaScript.</p>
<h4>Leaderboard Page</h4>
<p>The Leaderboard page is a simple page, which only contains the template, and a div tag to display the leaderboard. In this page, you can take a dynamic look at this ranking list, which is implemented by socket.IO.</p>
<h4>CSS</h4>
<p>For the CSS part, I fully utilized the Bootstrap framework to achieve responsive design, ensuring good display effects on different devices. And I also referred a website template(https://wowthemesnet.github.io/template-mundana-bootstrap-html/index.html). I also wrote a css file &ldquo;/static/my.css&rdquo; to improve the appearance, like the semi transparent background and some images' sizes.</p>
<h4>JavaScript</h4>
<p>In the &ldquo;/static/my.js&rdquo;, it integrates audio control, automatic image rotation, timer function, and a simple online Q&amp;A system. This file fully utilizes the characteristics of JavaScript in DOM operations, event monitoring, time control, and data processing, achieving diversified functional integration from simple audio control to complex interaction processes.</p>
<h3>Back end</h3>
<p>The server application utilizes Express, Socket.IO, and Node.js to create an interactive web service featuring real-time updates for a leaderboard as part of a quiz game.</p>
<h4>Initial Setup</h4>
<p>Express: Sets up a server to handle routing for different pages.
<br  />HTTP: Creates an HTTP server instance to which Socket.IO will attach.
<br  />Socket.IO: Facilitates real-time, bidirectional communication between clients and the server.
<br  />Body-Parser: Parses incoming request bodies in middleware before handlers, useful for processing POST requests.
<br  />FS: Display static files.</p>
<h4>Routes</h4>
<p>There are three &ldquo;get&rdquo; requests and a &ldquo;post&rdquo; request functions. Three &ldquo;get&rdquo; requests each send three static html files, and the &ldquo;post&rdquo; request will store the form (score) into a txt file (&ldquo;/static/leaderboard.txt&rdquo;) extra.</p>
<h4>Socket.IO</h4>
<p>Inside the server (index.js), an io object is created. When client receives the leaderboard page, the internal JavaScript code will create a socket object connected to the io in the server. If a client is connected to the server, which means that there is a post request done and the leaderboard is updated, the server will emit an event &ldquo;leaderboard&rdquo; and send the data to all clients. The client's JavaScript code will also monitoring this event. After it catches this event, it will clear all the items in the leaderboard and reorder it.</p>
<h3>Challenges and Solutions</h3>
<p><strong>Design:</strong> It is difficult to ensure that the website presents a beautiful and user-friendly layout on different devices and screen sizes. So I referred to and draw on professional website templates.
<br  /><strong>Source material:</strong> Initially, I faced the problem of scarce resources and found it difficult to find elements such as images and icons that could meet design requirements and be suitable for use. To solve this problem, I found a free material website (https://iconarchive.com/) and also added some pictures of me to my website.
<br  /><strong>Background image:</strong> At first, I tried to add a background image to the website to enhance the visual effect, but soon found that the position of the image was not ideal, and the image remained fixed during page scrolling. Moreover, the high saturation of the background image affected the readability of the page text. So I modified the CSS, I adjust the fixed position of the image to fixed, and set transparency to the background using the rgba() color mode to make the background image semi transparent.
<br  /><strong>Bgm:</strong> At first I wanted to autoplay the music when the websit is loaded but finally failed. Then I learned from the Internet that  due to the privacy and user experience policies of modern browsers, automatic audio playback is mostly disabled by default. So I adjusted the design concept and added an icon to control the bgm.
<br  /><strong>Timer:</strong> I first found it difficult to record the time that user answer the questions. Then I checked up online and thought of a solution: In the front end JavaScript code, creating a Date object when user start the quiz. And this timer will stop when they choose an option. When they click the &ldquo;Next Question&rdquo; button, this timer will restart forming a circle.
<br  /><strong>Real-Time Communication Setup:</strong> Initially struggled with configuring Socket.IO for bidirectional communication. My solution is studying online, reading the official documentation and asking for help. Then I implemented connection handling correctly.</p>
</div>